Fintech early days:

For B. Scott - "alternative finance/money" had one meaning
For Fintech/tech people - something else!

Bigtech was still seen as positive
But last 10 years, slowly fused into financial sector! No longer challenging it

Decline in cash
Common view: bottom-up, people just adopt digital money more!
	Scott began writing about commercial interests into digital money


Prevailing ideology: "if something is not digital, it will die". especially among political class, business elites, innovation elites, journalists
	"human progress means ever more automation, interconnection, complexity and speed"
	digital transformation: inevitable, unstoppable, good for all people

BS: this is the latest iteration of corporate capitalist ideology
	it's amazon, huge digital players behind this type of thinking
	not ordinary human beings

Within this, people for ideas about money. People might like cash but have internalized the idea that cash must die, is archaic. 
	"cash as horse cart" - common story among pro-cash AND anti-cash people! *********
	at most plan to slow down the transformation, stall, not avoid/stop digital transformation
	OR: "the main problem of cashless society is that people will be left behind"
		x the unbanked!!!


	"people are driving this transformation to digital": mainstream economic ideology, "the consumer" driving transformations!!
		implied that small players have the agency! "consumers opt for" **********
			not "the corporate sector that controls the architecture is slowly eroding the system..!"

"Breaking the standard story with two metaphors"

	1. "euros" in bank accounts are digital casino chips
			(and confidence in them is underpinned by cash)
	privately issued chips, a secondary type of money that is only valid locally (but derives power from the payment for the chips)
	casino chip is not really an upgrade to cash! more like a symbiotic form? a less-real cash?
	
	digital cash companies! have propaganda campaigns against cash!
	"cashless society" = "whisky as beerless alcohol". really is "society dominated by banking sector/big tech
	
	AT LEAST AS MUCH POWER IS AT THE BIG CORPORATE INFRASTRUCTURE PLAYERS, not ordinary people. regardless of what ordinary people want.
		"the desire of the market is actually desire of the oligopolies"
		corporates prefer to deal with each other than with ordinary people
		have enough power to override what customers think! lufthansa, visa

	2. cash is the "public bicycle system" of payments
		vital for maintaining a resilient, inclusive balance of power with the monetary system 
			bikes earlier than cars, but more popular now. old does not mean bad.
		Uber x Bikes! imagine if Uber were in charge of the entire transport infrastructure

		also an attack on localization! cash is historically associated with localized interactions between human beings!!! ****?
		in cashless society, every single transaction has to go through one huge intermediary

++ digitizaion is required for fusion of big tech and big finance
++ crypto perceive themselves as decentralized couter-attack to this conglomeration
		form a distraction! against the important task of maintaining a balance of power against the existing monetary system

"EVERYTHING MUST BECOME A FORMAL SYSTEM" mentality!
	and now right-wing is the main movement raising awareness against this!

EU DECODE TEAM POACHED BY FACEBOOK LIBRA!!! *******
	Libra - stablecoins

state money
then bank money
then paypal-lilke CORPORATE money! like a third layer, a chip on a chip
	Stablecoins are more or less that. Libra backed by a basket
	TRADE ON NATIONAL CURRENCIES ON THE BACKGROUND! probably reinforcing US dollar 
Sold to Silvergate, other corporate player. Trying to sneak into third layer of monetary system

Focus now CBDC (layer 1!) or Stablecoins (layer 3!). but no one focused on layer 2, the actual private structure

Originally: bearer instrument (anonymous cash) or named accounts (identifiable, and some structure needed to move units around)
	Crypto created something new! 

Why nervous system as better metaphor to monetary system than blood?
	a nervous system with different forms within it! but financial actors are more like a motor cortex; turning thoughts into action


pro-cash position advocates for a slower, more frictional form of money! matches degrowth movements. crypto is usually accelerationist~


With layer 2 and bank multiplier, system creates the power to activate/deactivate some parts of the economy (through financing!). e.g. activate housing speculation, deactivate green energy

counter cash-criminal arguments:
	digital payments also used for crime! offshore banking
 		probably spike in cybercrime
	even if only criminality was on cash, must take holistic view with pros and cons - can't undermine monetary system, create power centralization, surveillance problems, exclusion problems! worth it?
all-digital might destroy criminality, but also informality, all means of ..? overkill


gold was more..... psychological backstop than actualy monetary system backing!? from a more chartalist view
	actually backed... at least somewhat by government demand? as argued by MMT?

Facebook probably has no interest in becomeing a monetary authority! wants to rely on central bank pre-structure

what happens when people don't have the ability to exit the banking sector? e.g. through a bank run! can't take casino chip back and get the cash


legal tender and... can't be refused for debt?!?

thinks there will be a resurgence in cash popularity over the next 10 years
	at least leave the naive phase of digital cash ideology

no ideal, no utopia - a contradiction view of society, know we are caught in contradictions - at best, maybe maintain balance of power
	maintaining the cash system becomes an important way of preventing the excesses of other system
more actual reporting, more authenticity, would be better. would be better if it was at least said "digitization is happening because of the process of global capitalism"

Berlin!!


QQ: I followed the leap towards digital payments in urban China starting around 2015. A common argument at the time was that western countries were taking longer to go through this transformation due to resistance from old payment gatekeepers like Visa, Mastercard and retail banking. These corporations were seen as slowing down, not promoting, the "digital cash transition". Can we track down the moment when this changed? Why has the transition taken relatively long in the west?