




- what is the US actually trying to do with china? no clear end game? 
what i see on the possibility of successful decoupling is very guarded, e.g. https://www.ft.com/content/74f7e284-c047-4cc4-9b7a-408d40611bfa
so what does this mean? what is the historical precedent for economically intertwined cold war? post-global cold war? WWI? it's very hard knowing nothing relevant of history right now haha


- china already so economically enmeshed with rest of world. what does decoupling even mean? reducing integrated growth on the margins?

~Latin America actually did better during the Cold War than outside it, as it suddenly actually had some strategic/geopolitical value for the western camp. Wherever the US fixes it gaze for long enough, with matching USD outflows, becomes part of the rich/industrialized west (Marshall Plan Europe, occupied Japan, Israel)
Even Portugal and Spain (which are, let's face it, little more than protolatinos) are really mostly just nominal, honorary members of the west - let alone LatAm.

One big difference is that the Soviet Union were never Brazil's biggest economic partner

more than that - it is the supply chain capital of the world. what does it mean to have a cold war with the world's greatest chunk of supply chain, really? regardless of how far the alliances go and how much moral high ground you hold?


just based on the tiny electronics i made and sold in brazil

the variables there are
- how much anti-US and anti-China sentiment is there brewing up in the global south?
- how independent from are south-south economic relations 

the "alliance without limits" turned into a big wall straddle. this might change if China finally starts selling weapons to Russia, but the reality of the first year of the war was a non-comittal china occasionally pressuring putin to scale down the fight.

if latin america ends up falling into the US/West camp, it will be at least with a lot of internal resistance. but I'm not sure this way of thinking even makes sense considering the size of trade with china.

i should probably say south america, as Mexico stands to benefit the most from decoupling and so is not in a very different situation: https://twitter.com/ianbremmer/status/1634562320147038210?s=20